Known Issues affecting the Cycle 12 release of the ALMA Observing Tool.

The following table lists those issues which are known to affect the Cycle 12 version of the Observing Tool. This will be updated to denote whether an issue has been fixed and whether this fix has made it into an updated release.

 

Issue	Description	Resolved?	Deployed?
C1_032	Leaving the OT open for days at a time can cause an error upon saving. Saving to another file, closing the OT and re-opening produces a "ZLIB input stream" error i.e. the project is unreadable. This issue is yet to be satisfactorily characterised.	 	 
C6_001	The OT's mosaicing algorithm will not allow an even number of pointings along a single row. A custom mosaic may be used instead.	 	 
C8_002	When setting the hour of a multiple visit using the time-constraint interface, it may not be possible to select certain values and attempting to do so may cause the OT to freeze. There is no known workaround at present.	 	 
C8_003	Sources with different velocities may bring up a validation error relating to 'tuning groups'. Small changes to the source velocity may solve the problem. The first source typically seems to be the problem.	 	 
C10_001	When selecting “Simultaneous 12-m and ACA observations” in a project where two different 12-m configurations are required (e.g., C-5 and C-2), the smaller configuration (e.g., C-2) is dropped without any warning.	 	 
C10_004	In the correlator configuration section of the Technical Justification in the OT, the effective bandwidth is wrongly displayed as representative spectral window resolution and thus the calculation of the line width / representative spectral window resolution is not correct.	 	 
C11_003	In the science goal summary of the proposal pdf, the time windows for time-constrained projects with multiple visits are not displayed.	 	 
C11_004	For spectral scan projects, the achieved RMS over the total bandwidth reported in the Technical Justification is wrong. One should refer to the requested RMS.	 	 
C12_001	Since Cycle 11 the OT uses angular resolution tables for each configuration based on simulations of arrays with 43 to 50 antennas which contain a minimum and maximum resolution per declination. This works correctly except for the shortest and longest 12-m configurations offered in a given cycle. In Cycle 12 the angular resolution ranges of C-1 and C-8 are therefore slightly limited; specifically, the OT does not validate the nominal coarsest resolution for C-1, and the nominal highest angular resolution for C-8.	 	 
C12_002	If a JWST image in FITS format is loaded in the OT spatial visualizer to create ALMA pointings, the OT may incorrectly read the WCS information. We recommend loading the JWST image in CARTA, create the pointings there, and use them in the OT without relying on the OT spatial visualizer.	 	 
C12_003	For Spectral Scans, in Cycle 12 the OT erroneously calculates the integration time if the bandwidth used for sensitivity is set to “AggregateBandWith”. If one wishes the OT to calculate the sensitivity over the aggregate bandwidth, one should set the bandwidth used for sensitivity to “User” with a frequency width of 3.75 GHz.	 	 